Docs and link updates for plan, connect, and usage docs (#18344)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/cockroachcloud/plan-your-cluster-advanced.md

---
title: Plan a CockroachDB Advanced Cluster
summary: Plan your cluster's configuration.
toc: true
docs_area: deploy
cloud: true
---

{% include cockroachcloud/filter-tabs/plan-your-cluster.md %}

This page describes how to plan your CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.advanced }} cluster.

> ## Planning your cluster

Author: That's the current content -- I don't want to change it rn and cause more broken links. Will update it when I rework the content.

Some of a CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.advanced }} cluster's provisioned memory capacity is used for system overhead factors such as filesystem cache and sidecars, so the full amount of memory may not be available to the cluster's workloads.

CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.advanced }} clusters use three Availability Zones (AZs). For balanced data distribution and best performance, we recommend using a number of nodes that is a multiple of 3 (for example, 3, 6, or 9 nodes per region).

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
You cannot scale a multi-node cluster down to a single-node cluster. If you need to scale down to a single-node cluster, [back up]({% link cockroachcloud/take-and-restore-customer-owned-backups.md %}) your cluster and [restore]({% link cockroachcloud/take-and-restore-customer-owned-backups.md %}) it into a new single-node cluster.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

#### Advanced security features

> If your cluster needs access to all features required for [PCI readiness](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/{{site.current_cloud_version}}/security-reference/security-overview), you should [configure advanced security features]({% link cockroachcloud/create-an-advanced-cluster.md %}#step-6-configure-advanced-security-features) while creating your CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.advanced }} cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your cluster needs access to all features required for [PCI DSS readiness](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/{{site.current_cloud_version}}/security-reference/security-overview), you should [configure advanced security features]({% link cockroachcloud/create-an-advanced-cluster.md %}#step-6-configure-advanced-security-features) while creating your CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.advanced }} cluster.
```

Multi-region CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.advanced }} clusters must contain at least three regions to ensure that data replicated across regions can survive the loss of one region. For example, this applies to internal system data that is important for overall cluster operations as well as tables with the [`GLOBAL`](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/{{site.current_cloud_version}}/global-tables) table locality or the [`REGIONAL BY TABLE`](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/{{site.current_cloud_version}}/regional-tables#regional-tables) table locality and [`REGION` survival goal](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/{{site.current_cloud_version}}/multiregion-survival-goals#survive-region-failures).

Each region of a multi-region cluster must contain at least 3 nodes to ensure that data located entirely in a region can survive the loss of one node in that region. For example, this applies to tables with the [`REGIONAL BY ROW`](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/{{site.current_cloud_version}}/regional-tables#regional-by-row-tables) table locality. We recommend you use the same number of nodes in each region of your cluster for best performance and stability.

> You can have a maximum of 9 regions per cluster through the Console. If you need to add more regions, [contact us](https://support.cockroachlabs.com).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure a maximum of 9 regions per cluster through the Console. If you need to add more regions, [contact your Cockroach Labs account team](https://support.cockroachlabs.com).
```
